title: Where's Amazon Heading Next?

starter:

Amazon has decided to make their selection process for their HQ2 public,
meaning that anyone and everyone has access to the [criteria they're looking
for](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/Anything/test/images/usa/RFP_3._V516043504_.pdf)
in their next hub. Recently, they narrowed their search down to 20 final candidate cities, and are expected to make their final
decision soon, with some experts predicting a decision within a month or so.
This interactive map will walk you through some of Amazon's main criteria, and
which cities do (and don't) fit the bill.

:end

closer:

Though Amazon has yet to declare the date of their announcement, analysts report
that Amazon has visited all 20 candidate cities and is expected to make an
announcement soon. That being said, there are still many things that are left unanswered.


Sure, we know the criteria that Amazon *says* they'll take into consideration.
But, is there going to be any more that gets factored into the decision? Austin is the headquarters
of Whole Foods, the grocery giant that was acquired by Amazon. LA is the only west-coast city,
and it seems like Amazon wants to reach out geographically. Speaking of geography, Toronto is
the only city out of the United States and, with 19 other cities all in the US, perhaps
Amazon is not looking at going international. Lastly, though politics may fit in with Amazon's
RFP on "cultural and community fit", in the map we only looked at the cities that truly fit
in with Amazon's liberal backings. However, Dallas is the most "red" city out of the 20 candidates,
meaning that there may be more divisions brought into the greater Dallas area with an
extremely blue company coming into an already divided city.


Amazon has told us what they say they're looking for, and by looking at all the data we
see that cities like Austin, Atlanta and Denver seem to meet all the criteria. But, will Amazon
make their decision solely on this data? Or will there be other factors that only the top
execs know about? Only time will tell.


Want more information? [Click here](https://reflect.github.io/amazon-hq2-proposals/) to access a database with the HQ2 proposals
from individual cities.

:end

[sections]

title: Introduction
text:

Here are all 20 cities. As you scroll down this article, various criteria from
Amazon will show up, and the map will pan and zoom to highlight the cities that
match (some of the cities may fall behind the blocks of text). At any point you
can click on any of the points on the map and all of the data for that city will
pop up. At the bottom of the page is a button that can unlock the map to allow
for you to explore, click and zoom around the page.


:end

title: KEY
alignment: right
filter: incentives
text:

* Green: city that *does* meet criteria
* Black: city that *doesn't* meet criteria
:end



title: Overall Job Growth
alignment: right
filter: j_growth
text:

Amazon, in a document full of guidance for candidate cities, states that one
of their main requirements in a city is a "stable and consistent business climate for
growth." Looking at overall job growth, we can see that a number of cities
stand out with more than 5% increase over the last 10 years.

\*Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics*

:end

title: Tech Sector Job Growth
alignment: left
filter: t_growth
text:

Of course, it's not just any kind of job that Amazon is looking for. Taking
tech jobs into account, we can cross reference the cities with an overall job
growth of 5% in the last 10 years with cities that have a tech sector job growth
of more than 6% in the last 5 years. Adding tech jobs to the equation reduces us
down to only four cities.

\*Source: Brookings Institute*
:end

title: Incentives
alignment: left
filter: incentives
text:

Amazon also says that various incentives are
also going to be crucial in the selection process. These are all the cities that
have offered incentives of at least $1 billion.

:end

title: Commuting, Airports
filter: airports
highlight: false
text:

One of the main decision factors listed by Amazon is the potential site's
access to airports: "an international airport with daily direct
flights to Seattle, New York, San Francisco/Bay Area, and Washington, D.C. is
also an important consideration." 17 of the 20 final cities have an airport
that meets this criteria.

:end

title: Commuting, Congestion
filter: traffic
text:

But what about the logistics of commuting *within* the city? Amazon says that
they'll need to be able to shuffle around 50,000+ employees every day. Based on
North American traffic congestion ratings, we see that 8 of the 20 candidate


\*Source: INRIX*

:end

title: Quality of Life
filter: none
text:

Amazon, in their criteria document, say that they want to "invest in a community where our employees will enjoy living, recreational opportunities, educational
opportunities, and an overall high quality of life." Let's narrow it down to
two major components: cost of living and various amenities. These two
components are relatively proportional, with the latter generally leading to
the former. That being said, we look for cities that can strike a balance
between the two.

:end

title: Cost of Living
filter: rent
text:

Cities like Atlanta, Miami, Austin, Denver and Chicago all have
median rent prices below $1150 per month, making them relatively cheap for the
cost of living. However, even though Washington D.C. is on the more expensive
side, the much more affordable Baltimore is a short train ride away.

\*Source: Apartment List Rent Data*

:end

title: Cultural Community Fit
text: In Amazon's criteria document, they mention the importance of a "compatible cultural
and community environment for long term success". Including a "diverse population,
excellent institutions of higher education", we highlight the cities that have more than three
higher education institutions and 



title: Politics
filter: politics
alignment: left
text:

Feeding off of Cultural Community Fit is the political climate of the potential cities.
A recent article by [The Atlantic](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/02/amazon-headquarters-politics/553394/) brought to light
the potential of Amazon's new base influencing the politics of an entire state,
and by extension, potentially flipping a red state blue. States like Ohio,
Pennsylvania and North Carolina are all considered swing states. The
introduction of an additional 50,000 voters may have a lasting impact on state
politics. Highlighted are all of the candidate cities that are in "swing" states.

:end
